# Project-442
: 14.88 MW Bagasse based Co-generation by M/s Utopian Sugars Ltd. Dist. Solapur, Maharashtra

1st CoU Issuance Period: 02/12/2014 to 31/12/2022 (08 years 1 month)

1st Monitoring Period: 02/12/2014 to 31/12/2022 (08 years 1 month)

1st Crediting Period: 02/12/2014 to 31/12/2022 (08 years 1 month)
____________________

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and standardized
baselines
CDM UNFCCC
Small-scale Methodology
AMS-I D: Grid connected renewable
electricitygeneration, Ver 18

UCR Standard for Baseline Grid Emission
Factor

Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries (Renewable/Non
RenewableSources)
___________
Utopian Sugars Ltd., a limited company registered in the State of Maharashtra under the
Companies Act 1956, and promoted by experts in the Sugar industry under the leadership of
Shri. Prashant Paricharak, proposes to set up a Green field 3500 TCD crushing capacity sugar
plant for producing 100% White plantation Sugar, along with 14.88 MW Cogeneration
Power Plant at Post Kacharewadi, Tal. Mangalweda, Dist. Solapur, Maharashtra. The Sugar
Plant shall comprise of a 3500 TCD capacity mill house and boiling house with capability to
produce 100% white plantation sugar along with all necessary equipment’s / auxiliaries for
semi-automatic operation of the plant.

The project 14.88 MW Bagasse based Co-generation by M/s Utopian Sugars Ltd. is a
bagasse-based Co-Generation (co-gen) Power Project successfully commissioned by
Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) and operational
since 02-12-2014. The Project is owned by M/s Utopian Sugars Ltd. (hereby to be called as
Project Proponent, PP).

The purpose of the project activity is to generate electricity using renewable biomass and
thereby reduce GHG emissions by displacing the fossil fuel dominated grid based
electricity with biomass based renewable electricity. The electricity produced by the project
is directly contributing to climate change mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) into the atmosphere by displacing an equivalent
amount of fossil power at grid. Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net
electricity generation i.e., 32,253 MWh from the Indian grid system, which otherwise
would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power
plants. The project activity doesn’t involve any GHG emission sources. The estimated annual
CO2e emission reductions by the project activity areexpected to be 26,715 tCO2e, whereas
actual emission reductions achieved during the first CoU period shall be submitted as a part
of first monitoring and verification.

The PP has set up an integrated sugar mill with sugar crushing capacity of 3500 TCD and
installs new 14.88 MW turbine commissioning on 02/12/2014 Bagasse based Cogeneration
power plant. This will remove the dependency of the sugar mill on the power supplied from
the state grid. Power generated from this project activity will be used for meeting plant
requirement. After fulfilling its captive energy requirement, remaining power will be sold to
the state grid as per the Power Purchase Agreement / Energy Purchase agreement.
The Co-gen power project of 14.88 MW capacities will operate for a period of 160 to 180
days during the cane crushing season of the sugar plant. The plant shall also operate during
the off-season for a minimum period of 150 days with saved bagasse, Actual number of mill
operation days will be mentioned in the monitoring period. At designed level, the project will
generate clean energy and after meeting the captive requirement export the surplus energy to
Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSEDCL). All the steam and
power requirements of the sugar mill and co-gen power plant will be met internally from the
project itself. The project activity employs 14.88 MW aggregated generators along with one
boiler of 82.5 TPH with high pressure and temperature configuration (45kg/cm2
, 5150C).

As per the power purchase agreement (PPA) between the state electricity board (MSETCL)
andproject proponent, dated 29/03/2014, the project activity generates a total of 14.88MW of
power and supplies approximately 7 MW of this bagasse based power to the grid. The project
activity is the construction and operation of a power plant/unit that uses renewable energy
sources and supplies electricity to the grid. The implementation of the project does not result in
an increase in the processing capacity of the raw input or any other changes in the sugar
manufacturing process.
The power generation is synchronization is with the 132 KV substation of MSETCL
(substation at Mangalwedha, Pandharpur). All the biomass used at the site qualifies under the
definition of biomass residues as outlined in the methodology, i.e. the biomass residue is a
by-product of agricultural activities and no other types of biomass is used. In the case of the
project activity, the biomass residue is bagasse, which is generated from the crushing of
sugar cane.

Hence, the project activity is a grid-connected biomass (bagasse based) cogeneration power
plant with a high pressure steam-turbine configuration. The high pressure boilers are fired
by bagasse,a biomass byproduct from the sugar manufacturing process, to generate steam
which in turn is fed to the steam turbine to generate power. The overall business is integrated
with alcohol distillation and power generation. The power co-generation units generate
biomass based power for captive consumption of the sugar plant and the sale of surplus power
to the state grid. The project plant exports power to the Maharashtra State Electricity
Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL), in ab
